---
author: "4GeeksAcademy"
date: "2019-03-20T05:29:14+00:00"
excerpt: "Intrigued by the prospect of launching a  rewarding career without a college degree, Valerie explored her options and found 4Geeks Academy to be the perfect fit."
template: "post" 
title: "From Maid to Developer: Valerie's Stellar Journey at 4Geeks Academy"
image_alt: "From Maid to Developer"

---

Title: From Maid to Developer: Valerie's Stellar Journey at 4Geeks Academy
Valerie Dubach, currently a PHP Developer at OMG National and a TA at our Academy, has a truly inspiring story. While working long hours cleaning houses, she found herself yearning for a career with growth potential, but with no clue of how to achieve it.  Her interest in coding bootcamps was sparked by a conversation with a client who highlighted the increasing number of companies hiring bootcamp graduates. Her search then led her to 4Geeks Academy, where she kickstarted the journey of becoming a developer that completely transformed her life. Let's dive further into her story and find out how our coding bootcamp helped her pave the way into the tech industry.
Intrigued by the prospect of launching a  rewarding career without a college degree, Valerie explored her options and found 4Geeks Academy to be the perfect fit. Besides being one of the few options available in Georgia, she was drawn to our part-time online learning format, which would allow her to balance studying with existing commitments.
Another aspect that differentiated our Academy was the accessible pricing and payment model through the Income Share Agreement (ISA). Valerie appreciated the opportunity to defer payment until after securing a job, easing financial concerns and enabling her to focus on her studies. Now that she is employed, the monthly payments are significant but reasonable, allowing her to pay off her debt in just 3 years. 
Our bootcamp's track record of graduates finding employment within three months of completing the bootcamp sealed her decision to learn to code with us. Within days of applying, Valerie was enrolled in the program, equipped with pre-work materials, and ready to begin her coding journey. This was Valerie’s first contact with code but the pre-work section prepared her for what was coming in the bootcamp. In her own words, it helped her “overcome the shock of looking at code” and familiarized her with basic concepts and tools like the  code editor, GitHub, HTML, CSS and some JavaScript. Her positive experience is one more example that proves no prior coding knowledge is needed to succeed within a bootcamp methodology. 
Throughout the part-time, online Full Stack Coding Bootcamp, Valerie found the curriculum to be well-structured and engaging. The blend of lectures, hands-on projects, and supplementary modules provided a comprehensive learning experience, which proved to be manageable despite juggling her studies with her freelance cleaning work. According to her experience and that of her classmates, if you work hard during class, you won’t have to complete assignments afterwards and can use the time to keep practicing on extra projects. In Valerie’s case, once her passion for coding was ignited, she just wanted to learn as much as possible!
Valerie attributes much of her success to taking full advantage of the unlimited 1:1 mentorship sessions available throughout the learning process and she is always motivating her students to do the same. Time and again, experience confirms that the more students use the mentors at 4Geeks Academy, the better they do overall. So, take note, future students!
When asked about the most valuable skills she learned at the Academy, Valerie likes to highlight the growth mindset instilled in the bootcamp, emphasizing the importance of continuous learning to stay up to date in the rapidly evolving tech landscape. It was thanks to this  mindset that she taught herself PHP and JQuery, skills that she had not learned in the bootcamp but needed in her new job. In a field as dynamic as tech, adaptability and proactiveness are key to staying professionally relevant.
Another feature Valerie especially appreciated in her bootcamp experience was the comprehensive support provided by 4Geeks Academy's career services. From creating a professional GitHub profile to honing interview skills (which was a challenge since she is naturally shy), our experts offered  tailored guidance that proved to be essential for a successful job hunt. Now as a TA, Valerie won’t miss an opportunity to underline the importance of persistence to her students, having applied to about 800 positions before securing her role as a PHP Developer at OMG National! 
Beyond technical skills, our Academy’s support network, with unlimited coding and career mentorships, also gave Valerie the sense of community she needed to bolster her confidence and resilience. Could there be any stronger proof of its positive impact than having Valerie  become a TA at 4Geeks? We don’t think so, and we take great pride in the quality of our support system!
Valerie's story is a great example of  the way a coding bootcamp can improve one's life and future prospects. By embracing lifelong learning and seizing opportunities, individuals from all walks of life can build a rewarding career in the tech industry without having to invest long years and fortunes. As Valerie aptly puts it, with determination and #NoExcuses, anything is possible.
Join the thriving community of tech enthusiasts and kickstart your own transformative journey with us today!


