---
author: "alesanchezr"
excerpt: "Preparing for a full stack developer interview? Make sure you're ready with our list of full stack developer interview questions to help you land your dream job."
template: "post" 
title: "Full Stack Developer Interview Questions"

---

The full stack interview is something everyone wants to be prepared for as it is the most demanding profession now a day due to the emergence of [computer science](https://4geeksacademy.com/us/coding-bootcamps/datascience-machine-learning) and web development. It requires skills including front and back end development, databases and API design, among others. In this article we will put forward a detailed list of interview questions for full stack developers that everyone aspiring can prepare for. 

## How to prepare for a Full Stack Developer Interview

Let us first explain some tips on how everyone can ace interview of the [Full stack developer](https://4geeksacademy.com/us/coding-bootcamps/part-time-full-stack-developer). First tip is that a thorough research of the company is needed to be conducted including its tech stack. Everyone should be aware of the framework and the technologies that the company uses. Secondly, coding challenges should be practiced along with other algorithms. They should be able to solve coding challenges efficiently, along with that the past experiences should be demonstrated clearly as the employers want to know about the past projects and the way challenges were tackled, the best way to show your past experience is showing a portfolio, if you don't have one you can check our article to learn how to create a [Full Stack Developer Portfolio](https://4geeksacademy.com/us/full-stack-developer/full-stack-developer-portfolio). Also be prepared for the talking about the achievements that were related to the job you are applying for. 

## Let's talk about the Full Stack Developer Interview Questions

1.	What is the Full Stack Developer? A full stack developer is proficient in both the front and back end development. They are efficient in creating a complete web application and are proficient in technologies including, HTML, [CSS](https://4geeks.com/lesson/what-is-css-learn-css), JavaScript, Note.js, and databases. 
2.	What are the technologies used for front end development? A Full Stack developer should be proficient in [front-end development](https://4geeks.com/es/lesson/what-is-front-end-development) and it's technologies that are the HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Along with the front end framework such as React and Angular. 
3.	What are the technologies used for the [back-end development](https://4geeks.com/lesson/backend-developer)? A Full Stack Developer should be aware with the back end technologies including Node.js, Ruby on Rails, and PHP. The framework of back-end such as Express.js and Django. 
4.	What is your experiences with databases? The experiences of Full Stack developer should be in working with databases such as MySQL, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL. They should be having ability to create and maintain databases, and perform CRUD operations. 
5.	What experiences are you having with version control system? For the Full stack interview it is required to have a good experience in Git, which is version control system. It is used mainly for collaboration with other developers and also be comfortable creating branches, merging and resolving conflicts.  
6.	What is your experience with API design? The implementation and designing for RESTful APIs is required for a full stack developer along with the knowledge of documentation of testing tools such as Swagger and Postman. 
7.	 Can you explain MVC pattern? The MVC (Model-View_ Controller) pattern is a software design pattern that is used to separate an application in three interconnected parts. The model(data), the view (user interface), and the controller (logic). The full stack developer should have a knowledge about this pattern along with its usage in web development. 
8.	How to optimize the website for its best performance? A Full stack developer should be able to optimize a website for it maximum performance. It is done by reducing file size, minimizing HTTP requests, and using the caching techniques. They should also be familiar with the performance testing tools including Google Page Speed insights. 
9.	What are some common security concerns for web applications? A Full stack developer should have a great knowledge with common security concerns such as SQL injection, cross-site scripting (XSS), and cross- site request forgery (CSRF). Also they should be familiar with the tools such as SSL and OAuth. 
10.	How do you stay up-to-date with the latest technologies and trends? A Full Stack Developer should be passionate about learning and staying up-to-date with the latest technologies and trends. They should read industry blogs and attend conferences and meetups. They should provide and explain the plan and process for staying up-to date
11.	What are the strengths and weaknesses of the Full Stack Developer? This question is mainly designed to identify the candidate ability to improve and his self-awareness. The Full Stack candidate should be able to explain his strengths thoroughly. 
12.	What front-end frameworks have you worked with? The front end framework such as the Angular, React and Vue.js are very important for the full stack developer. These are modern web applications. The knowledge and experience of at least one framework is very essential for a full stack aspirant. 
13.	What back-end frameworks have you worked with? The back end frameworks including Ruby on Rails, [Django](https://4geeks.com/lesson/django-rest-framework), and Laravel are very important for web applications. They are needed for building scalable and maintainable web applications. 
14.	What programming languages are you familiar with? Programing languages are the basic need for the Full Stack developer. It includes HTML, CSS and [JavaScript](https://4geeks.com/lesson/what-is-javascript-learn-to-code-in-javascript). The knowledge of at least one back end language such as PHP, Ruby or Python is also required. This question is designed to have the determination of candidate’s proficiency of these languages. 
15.	What are your primary responsibilities as a Full Stack Developer? The Full Stack developer are responsible for both front and back end development so the candidate should describe their experience in both ends. 

In conclusion, interviewing a full stack developer is quite challenging task and it is greatly important to understand the technical skills and experiences required for it. The questions that are asked should evaluate the candidate’s proficiency in these specific areas. By using these interview question outlined in this article, the hiring process can become easier as the hiring manager can assess the candidate’s ability to solve problems and communicate efficiently.
