## Full Stack Developer vs. Software Engineer

## Understanding the Differences and Salaries of Full Stack and Software Developers
When it comes to Software development mainly two terms are used which are software engineer and full stack developer. However, they differ in their duties and provided salaries. Let us examine in detail the key differences on the basis of their salaries and responsibilities, so that it can become easier for you to anticipate getting after taking any one of these positions. 

## Difference between Full Stack Developers vs. Software Engineers.
First, let us first define the terms for a brief understanding. A full stack developer is a software developer who have skills and knowledge in both front and back end of web development. It means they can work on everything from the user interface (UI) to the server-side logic and database management. A stack developer can handle all aspects of web development. However, software engineer specializes in developing software applications. It includes mobile and web applications and desktop software. They have in-depth knowledge of computer science and software design principles. Their approaches can differ if they work on the same project. A full-stack developer specifically handles web development, and software engineers can handle a broader range of projects and work on non-web-based software.

Work Content for Full Stack Developers vs. Software Engineers
The work content can also differ as we already discussed, the full stack developers primary focus is on web development. They mainly work on creating the UI, development of server side logistics using Ruby, Python, or Node.js languages. Also they work on front end code by using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Their key role is to manage the database so that web development could work smoothly.  On the other hand, the software engineer's work is not limited to web development and can work on a wide range of projects. Their work includes software applications for mobiles and desktop computers. Typically, their work will be designing, testing the software, and using programming languages such as C++, Python, and Java.

Salary for Full Stack Developers vs. Software Engineers
If we look into the salary of software engineer and a full stack developer, both are competitive. As according to Glassdoor, the average salary for a software engineer in the United States is around $92000 per year, and a full stack developer is $ 86000. However, it varies and greatly depend upon the location, experience, and the company offering the job opportunity.  The roles of software engineers have additional bonuses and equities, which in turn increase their salary package. Both roles are very demanding so either position can provide a relatively healthy job market. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics data, software developer employment is projected to grow 22 percent from 2019 to 2029. It is much faster than all the occupations average.

Collaboration for Full Stack Developers vs. Software Engineers
On the basis of collaboration and team work the Full Stack developer serves are the head of the team and is responsible for helping other team members in the process of developing the web applications. They work more closely with the designers and the other project managers. However, the Software Engineers can operate on any specific domain and contribute to the overall operation of the team. They also help other members of the team in the process of programming and work closely with other engineers and the technical staff.
Problem-Solving for Full Stack Developer vs. Software Engineer
The Full Stack Developers have strong problem solving skills and abilities and their main focus is on implementation of specific functions and features within the existing system. However, for software engineers it is also required to have strong problem-solving skills and the ability to develop and perform complex operations. Problem-solving ability is very crucial and plays a very important role.

The Future for Stack Developers vs. Software Engineers
The professional development is really important for everyone and people deeply care about it now a day. The demand for programmers have greatly increased after the rise and development of modern technologies. It have paved the ways for people who aspire to pursue their career in computer science. There is an expected 22% increase in demand for software engineers from 2019 to 2029, citing the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Software developers are set to become the fastest-going occupation in the nation due to the predicted job openings recently. Full-stack developers see a significant rise on top of the general increase in demand for software engineers. By definition, full-stack engineers are both web developers and designers. As a result, they are afforded the luxury of more work stability.

Domain Access of Software Developer vs. Full Stack 
The full stack developer has the full access for the product development. They can fully code, design, test and deploy all the aspects of the product. Their work is not limited to front end only, however, they can work on both front and back end. On the other hand, the software engineers could not enjoy the full access and have single stop in the overall process. It includes developing the functions and checking how the code works perfectly if used on any browser. Also, they specialize in a single end. It could be the front end or back end. Senior roles such as project manager or leadership can also be taken by them.
Conclusion
To conclude, the work of both the [full stack developer](https://4geeksacademy.com/us/coding-bootcamps/part-time-full-stack-developer) and software engineer may overlap, however, their roles, responsibilities and focuses are different. Full-stack developers specialize in web development, while software engineers can work on a wider range of software applications. Both roles can expect competitive salaries, with software engineers potentially earning slightly higher base salaries on average. It's all about what sort of person you are when deciding between the team-based, single-mission objectives of a software engineer and the meticulous, real-time service goals of a full-stack developer. Whether your strength is in seeing a project through from start to finish or keeping it going after it's done, people should keep in mind that whether their focus is long-term or short-term, everyone must have a plan. Both are good opportunities to build your career and your abilities over time. Both of them are rapidly expanding and also have some challenges. However, both offer opportunities for wealth and professional development.
