Machine Learning Bootcamp

The advancement of digital world has given rise to machine learning profession. Everyone having necessary skills and experience want to pursue their career in this field. Machine learning Bootcamps are the best way to gain practical experience and boost the skills to thrive in this promising field. In this article Machine learning Bootcamps are briefly described and what the aspirants can expect to learn and why it is a worthwhile investment for future.  
What is Machine learning Bootcamp?
Machine learning Bootcamp is the extensive and immersive training program. It is designed to provide the professional knowledge and hands-on training for machine learning professionals. It takes few weeks or months and educate the students the principles and techniques which are required for starting the career in machine learning field.   These machine learning bootcamps are widely available. Udemy offers the popular one, which has Python Data science and machine learning coarses. It covers many topics including the fundamentals of programming and more advanced machine learning concepts. This course has 130 lectures and covers 21 hours of content. It provides a brief understanding of the machine learning algorithms, data visualization and data analysis. 
There are some parameters that sets the machine learning bootcamps apart from other learning options such as online courses or ordinary programs offered by university. The machine learning Bootcamps are specifically designed, hands on and are practical. They allow the students to apply their knowledge to the real world problems. It provides the opportunity to interact with other students and industry professional and also provide a significant advantage of offering mentorship and career resources. All of these parameters are very important when entering the machine learning field. 
As we know that Machine learning Bootcamps offer wide range of benefits, it also requires the investment of time. So before deciding to enroll in machine learning field, a student should be fully prepared and know every detail of the bootcamp. 
Additional Details to Consider When Choosing a Machine Learning Bootcamp
Curriculum and projects: 
The curriculum and the projects help to provide more knowledge on the specific topics that are covered in the Bootcamp. Such as supervised and unsupervised learning, deep learning, computer vision, reinforcement learning and natural language processing. The bootcamp also offers the students with opportunities to work on real world projects, such as developing a chatbot and building a recommendation engine. 
Instructor and mentor qualifications: 
The instructor and mentors are very important in the bootcamp of machine learning and their qualification must be highlighted. Are they having industry experience in the field of machine learning and do they have a background in research? Providing the student with transparent information about their instructors help them to align their learning goals and interests. 
Bootcamp format: 
The bootcamps may be online or offered in- person. The format of the bootcamp is very essential as it provides instructions about the length of the program, the number of hours and information about the synchronous and asynchronous components. 
Prerequisites: 
Some bootcamps require strong understanding of the programming language or basic understanding of statistics or linear algebra. It is important to keep in mind the perquisites of the bootcamp. 
Career outcomes: 
The students must also be provided a proper information about the career benefits of previous bootcamp graduates so that they could know whether the bootcamp is worth their investment or not. Some bootcamps offer high job placement rate and others offer the opportunity to build portfolio. By telling these details students can be informed of the importance of the bootcamp.
If you do choose to attend a Machine Learning Bootcamp, there are a few essential things to keep in mind. 
1.	Conduct thorough research: 
Conducting a thorough research before attending any machine learning bootcamp is very important as it help to align the student’s learning goals and interests. This includes researching the instructor experience and qualification, the curriculum, and old student’s reviews and career benefits. This research will help the students to make the wise decision and ensure them that investing their time and money is providing them with valuable results in the future. 
2.	Be prepared to commit to the rigorous schedule:
      Machine learning bootcamp require time and commitment. The aspirants must be prepared for dedicating hours to attend the lectures and workshops and completing the assignments along with the projects outside the class time. It’s very important to be honest about the commitment with yourself about your ability to commit to the program and to be prepared to make sacrifices if necessary.
3.	Make the most of your experience: 
Machine learning bootcamps are the best opportunity for the students to build their portfolio and to network with the industry professionals and other students. It helps them to gain access to career resources. The aspirants of machine learning should take advantage of these bootcamps as it opens the ways to many career goals. Many machine learning bootcamps helps students to prepare for interview and provide the services of reviewing the resume and job placement assistance. These are very important for an aspiring machine learning professional as they maximize the chances of success after completing the machine learning bootcamp. 
In conclusion, the machine learning bootcamps offer many opportunities to students along with learning experience and provide them the fundamental knowledge and practical skills. It helps them to thrive in the advancing field of machine learning. It is a worthwhile investment to attend these bootcamps as it provides a platform to the students to interact with other students and the professionals of the industry and to gain practical skills and hands-on trainings. It is however, expensive but knowing its potential can tell students its worth. A thorough research should be conducted on different factors including the curriculum, format of the bootcamp, qualification of the instructor, prerequisites and career opportunities so that a student can make a decision on whether a boocamp is right for them. Ultimately, attending a bootcamp require commitment and willingness, but the opportunities provided by these machine learning bootcamps make them attractive for the aspirants of machine learning.  


